CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to BTCDecoded

Thank you for your interest in contributing to BTCDecoded! This guide covers how to contribute to any repository in the BTCDecoded organization.

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Issues

- Use the GitHub issue tracker for the specific repository
- Provide clear, detailed descriptions
- Include steps to reproduce for bugs
- Use appropriate labels

### Suggesting Enhancements

- Open a discussion or issue to discuss the enhancement
- Provide clear use cases and benefits
- Consider the impact on the 5-tier architecture

### Submitting Code

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes**: Follow our coding standards
4. **Add tests**: Ensure your changes are tested
5. **Run the test suite**: `cargo test`
6. **Commit your changes**: Use conventional commit messages
7. **Push to your fork**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
8. **Open a Pull Request**: Provide a clear description

## Development Standards

### Code Style

- Follow Rust conventions and idioms
- Use `cargo fmt` to format code
- Use `cargo clippy` to check for improvements
- Write clear, self-documenting code

### Testing

- Write tests for all new functionality
- Ensure existing tests continue to pass
- Add integration tests for complex features
- Aim for high test coverage

### Documentation

- Document all public APIs
- Update README files when adding features
- Include code examples in documentation
- Follow Rust documentation conventions

### Commit Messages

Use conventional commit format:

```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

Types: `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`

Examples:
- `feat(bllvm-consensus): add new validation function`
- `fix(bllvm-node): resolve connection timeout issue`
- `docs(readme): update installation instructions`

## Repository-Specific Guidelines

### bllvm-consensus

- **Exact Version Pinning**: All consensus-critical dependencies must be pinned to exact versions
- **Mathematical Accuracy**: Changes must maintain mathematical correctness
- **Pure Functions**: All functions must remain side-effect-free
- **Comprehensive Testing**: All mathematical functions must be thoroughly tested

### bllvm-protocol

- **Protocol Abstraction**: Changes must maintain clean abstraction
- **Variant Support**: Ensure all Bitcoin variants continue to work
- **Backward Compatibility**: Avoid breaking changes to protocol interfaces

### bllvm-node

- **Consensus Integrity**: Never modify consensus rules
- **Production Readiness**: Consider production deployment implications
- **Performance**: Maintain reasonable performance characteristics

## Review Process

### Pull Request Requirements

- [ ] All tests pass
- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] Documentation is updated
- [ ] Commit messages follow conventions
- [ ] Changes are focused and atomic

### Review Criteria

- **Correctness**: Does the code work as intended?
- **Performance**: Are there any performance implications?
- **Security**: Are there any security concerns?
- **Maintainability**: Is the code maintainable?
- **Documentation**: Is the code well-documented?

## Getting Help

- **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions for questions
- **Issues**: Use GitHub Issues for bugs and feature requests
- **Security**: Use private channels for security issues (see SECURITY.md)

## Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- Repository CONTRIBUTORS.md files
- Release notes for significant contributions
- Organization acknowledgments

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please:
1. Check existing discussions and issues
2. Open a new discussion
3. Contact maintainers privately for sensitive matters

Thank you for contributing to BTCDecoded!

Commit message:

docs: Clarify distinction between code forking and governance forking
Add note to CONTRIBUTING.md clarifying that code forking (GitHub contributions)
is separate from the governance fork system (ruleset selection). This ensures
contributors understand both concepts are available.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to BTCDecoded

Thank you for your interest in contributing to BTCDecoded! This guide covers how to contribute to any repository in the BTCDecoded organization.

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Issues

- Use the GitHub issue tracker for the specific repository
- Provide clear, detailed descriptions
- Include steps to reproduce for bugs
- Use appropriate labels

### Suggesting Enhancements

- Open a discussion or issue to discuss the enhancement
- Provide clear use cases and benefits
- Consider the impact on the 5-tier architecture

### Submitting Code

1. **Fork the repository** (GitHub fork for code contributions)
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes**: Follow our coding standards
4. **Add tests**: Ensure your changes are tested
5. **Run the test suite**: `cargo test`
6. **Commit your changes**: Use conventional commit messages
7. **Push to your fork**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
8. **Open a Pull Request**: Provide a clear description

> **Note**: This is about code forking (GitHub contributions). For information about the governance fork system (choosing different governance rulesets), see the [Governance Fork Guide](https://github.com/BTCDecoded/BTCDecoded/blob/main/docs/GOVERNANCE_FORK_GUIDE.md).

## Development Standards

### Code Style

- Follow Rust conventions and idioms
- Use `cargo fmt` to format code
- Use `cargo clippy` to check for improvements
- Write clear, self-documenting code

### Testing

- Write tests for all new functionality
- Ensure existing tests continue to pass
- Add integration tests for complex features
- Aim for high test coverage

### Documentation

- Document all public APIs
- Update README files when adding features
- Include code examples in documentation
- Follow Rust documentation conventions

### Commit Messages

Use conventional commit format:

```
type(scope): description

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

Types: `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `test`, `chore`

Examples:
- `feat(bllvm-consensus): add new validation function`
- `fix(bllvm-node): resolve connection timeout issue`
- `docs(readme): update installation instructions`

## Repository-Specific Guidelines

### bllvm-consensus

- **Exact Version Pinning**: All consensus-critical dependencies must be pinned to exact versions
- **Mathematical Accuracy**: Changes must maintain mathematical correctness
- **Pure Functions**: All functions must remain side-effect-free
- **Comprehensive Testing**: All mathematical functions must be thoroughly tested

### bllvm-protocol

- **Protocol Abstraction**: Changes must maintain clean abstraction
- **Variant Support**: Ensure all Bitcoin variants continue to work
- **Backward Compatibility**: Avoid breaking changes to protocol interfaces

### bllvm-node

- **Consensus Integrity**: Never modify consensus rules
- **Production Readiness**: Consider production deployment implications
- **Performance**: Maintain reasonable performance characteristics

## Review Process

### Pull Request Requirements

- [ ] All tests pass
- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] Documentation is updated
- [ ] Commit messages follow conventions
- [ ] Changes are focused and atomic

### Review Criteria

- **Correctness**: Does the code work as intended?
- **Performance**: Are there any performance implications?
- **Security**: Are there any security concerns?
- **Maintainability**: Is the code maintainable?
- **Documentation**: Is the code well-documented?

## Getting Help

- **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions for questions
- **Issues**: Use GitHub Issues for bugs and feature requests
- **Security**: Use private channels for security issues (see SECURITY.md)

## Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- Repository CONTRIBUTORS.md files
- Release notes for significant contributions
- Organization acknowledgments

## Questions?

If you have questions about contributing, please:
1. Check existing discussions and issues
2. Open a new discussion
3. Contact maintainers privately for sensitive matters

Thank you for contributing to BTCDecoded!
